.\" @(#)alienfx.1 0.1 2010-11-01 Talisman
.ds p alienfx
.TH alienfx 1 "2010-11-01" "Group Talisman" "Talisman Utilities"
.SH NAME
alienfx \- control the AlienFX device seen on some AlienWare Aurora computers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B \*p
[ \fB\- | \fIcommand\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B \*p
is a utility for controlling the AlienWare AlienFX LED case lighting system
as seen on the Aurora line, generally sold by Dell.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.B \*p
accetps either a single command provided as arguments, or a series of
commands from stdin if so indicated.
.TP 15
.B \-
Read commands from stdin
.TP
.B \fIcommand\fP
Attempt to execute the remaining arguments as a command.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
Currently only two commands are supported:
.TP 5
.B info
.IP
Output a list of simple and combined light regions, each with a hexadecimal
region spec, whether it's a primtive (single-region) specifier or a composite
specifier, and an ASCII string that can be used interchangeably with the
hexadecimal region spec in other commands.
When used as arguments, hexadecimal region specifiers
should \fBomit\fP any "0x" prefix.
.TP 5
.B color \fIred\fP \fIgreen\fP \fIblue\fP [ \fIregionmask\fP ]
.IP
The red, green, and blue are expected to be integers in the range [0, 255],
and together indicate a single RGB color.   By default all regions are
set to the specified color, but any additional arguments will be interpreted
as region identifiers to set specifically, overridding the default.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.LP
.B \*p
attempts to return a non-zero exit status upon an error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To set all the lights to cyan:
.IP
.B \*p
.B color
.B 0
.B 255
.B 255
.LP
To turn on the lights off:
.IP
.B \*p
.B color
.B 0
.B 0
.B 0
.LP
To get a listing of lighting regions, showing example output from the Aurora:
.IP
.B \*p
.B info
.IP
  light primitives 4
  light composites 3
  region type      name
  ------ --------- ----
     0x1 primitive head
     0x8 primitive front
    0x80 primitive right
   0x100 primitive left
   0x180 composite sides
   0x188 composite panels
   0x189 composite all
.LP
A few ways to set the lights to medium yellow on the alien head and case sides
(omitting the lower case front),
using region identifiers from the \fBinfo\fP output above:
.IP
.B \*p
.B color
.B 127
.B 127
.B 0
.B head
.B 180
.IP
.B echo
.B color
.B 127
.B 127
.B 0
.B head
.B sides
.B |
.B \*p
.B \-
.SH NOTES
.LP
Minimally, the program should be extended to handle additional AlienFX
variaties, and the regionmask should be made device independent.
.LP
When feeding color settings in from stdin, note that at least some
versions of the chipset seem to have a minimum cycle time of between
one and two seconds, and that attempts to execute color commands at
shorter intervals will likely produce nondeterministic results.
.LP
Fades between colors, strobing, pulsing, and so forth are offered by the
chipset but not yet supported by this program.
.LP
The regions are \fBnot\fP the same on different cases.  
If an incorrect ASCII region name is given, the program will generate an
error message but will still attempt to process the rest of the region
specifiers, although use of the default will be disabled.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IP "Copyright (c) 2010 C. Alex. North-Keys"
.PP
.B \*p
is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License.
See http://www.gnu.org/licenses/ for complete information.
.PP
This software is provided "as is", with no warranty, guarantee, support,
maintenance, update schedule, claims to fitness for any purpose, or
anything else from the author or any other physical or legal entity.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR alienfx-uptime (8),
.BR udevadm (8),
.BR udev (8)
